Hypertext Transfer Protocol - Internet 

Difference Between HTTP/1.1 Vs HTTP/2

HTTP/1.1  

-  First standardized version of HTTP 1.1  was available  in 1997 
-  It works on the textual format 
-  Ihere is head of line blocking that blocks all the request behind it until it doesn't get all the resources. 
-  It uses requests rescue Inlining for use getting multiple pages 
-  It compresses data by itself 

HTTP/2
-  It was developed over the SPDY protocol. 
-  It works on the binary protocol 
-  It allows multiplexing so one TCP connection is required for multiple requests.
-  It uses PUSH frame by sever that collects all multipage pages 
-  It uses HPACK for date compression 

------------------------------------------------------------------

IP address : Internet Protocol Address is used to identify network in internet( WWW or Golbal Public Network ). It serves as a unique identifier for a device within a network, allowing it to send and receive data over the internet. 

Port Number: It is a unique ID of protocols in computers network.  It is a 16 bits value, range 0 - 65535 
This range in divided into three categories:
1. Well - Known Ports: ranging from 0 to 1023. They are assigned to specific services or protocols by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority(IANA). For exp. Port 80 is commonly used for HTTP, port 443 for HTTPS(secure)
2. Registered Ports: ranging from 1024 to 49151/ They can be registered with the IANA or organization or software developers for specific applications and services. 
3. Dynamic or Private Ports: ranging from 49152 to 65535,  They are available for dynamic assignment by client application or temporary use by the operating system. 

MAC: Media Access Control Address -> local addresses to identify/access media on a local network

HTTP Methods 
HyperText Transfer Protocol methods allow client(browser) to communicate with servers and perform various operations. 
Here are the most commonly used HTTP Methods:

1. GET
2. POST
3. PUT
4. PATCH
5. DELETE 
6. HEAD
7. OPTIONS